At Personnel Data Systems I was developing stored procedures that passed an SQL result set as an input parameter and then executed an external R script that applied various statistical tests as well as simple and linear regression models to the data. The goal of this stored procedure was to be able to quickly analyze employee survey responses with various employee demographic information. For example, a survey question could ask about your happiness level or how challenged you feel and the stored procedure could analyze the correlations between various demographic variables such as race, gender, level of seniority, and age. In order to accomplish this I first had to create a result set that joined a table of survey ids, survey questions, and survey answers with a table that consisted of various employee information. After that, I wrote an R script that ran various statistical tests that checked the normality of the distribution and at what confidence levels as well as if sample size requirements were met. Next, depending on the data type of the survey answer and the demographic variable being analyzed, either a simple regression model or a linear regression model was used to analyze the differences between the means of the demographic groups. Once the means were analyzed the p values were extracted and tested at various confidence levels so you could see how significant the data was as a whole. The store procedure then ended up outputting a dataframe that showed the values of the statistical tests including normality of the distribution, sample size, variance, which type of regression was used, and then the p value for that test and at various confidence levels. 

